- [Presenter] Continuous delivery is closely related
to the practices of continuous integration
and continuous deployment.
These three concepts commonly fall under
the umbrella of the term CICD.
It gets a little bit confusing
because continuous delivery and continuous deployment
are often used interchangeably and have the same acronym.
So let's first unpack these terms
then we'll talk about the different ways
that people use them.
When teams practice continuous integration,
they develop small changes
that are frequently merged
into a shared branch in their code repository.
The goal is for developers to commit to this branch
at least once per day,
but ideally they're checking in multiple times each day.
Each of these small commits triggers the automated pipeline,
which pulls the source code from the repository
onto a separate server where it's compiled and tested.
If an issue is detected by the automated tests
or the automated build breaks,
the developer is notified immediately by the pipeline.
At this point, getting the code base back
to a working state becomes the top priority
and they stop everything they're working on to fix it.
If the test pass,
the software's packaged into an artifact
and placed into a repository.
After the CI process builds this artifact,
continuous delivery and continuous deployment
enter the picture.
However, these practices
are a little bit less straightforward.
In general, both concepts relate
to the automated steps within a pipeline
that deliver the packaged artifact
produced by the CI process
into the production environment.
The difference between the two
is how much automation is built into the pipeline.
Teams practicing continuous delivery
will automate everything but the last step in the process
that deploys the artifact into production.
With continuous delivery,
this step must be manually triggered,
typically by pushing a button or merging a branch,
which causes the release of the new version into production.
Continuous deployment is very similar.
However, that last step
which deploys the software into production,
it's fully automated.
One way to picture it is to think of each practice
taking the automation further
or extending it further into the delivery process.
There's a lot of ways we can think about it
and often there's a bit of confusion
between continuous delivery and continuous deployment,
because the two terms are used
in a variety of different ways.
Sometimes you'll hear continuous integration,
delivery and deployment referred to
as separate steps or processes
that execute sequentially, one after the other.
Other times, you'll hear continuous delivery
and deployment referred to as interchangeable processes
where we can select one or the other
to perform after continuous integration.
To add to the confusion,
continuous delivery is sometimes referred to
as an overarching process
where continuous integration and deployment
are executed as sub-processes within it.
In discussions regarding CICD,
it's important to be flexible with the terminology,
because these processes have unique meanings
for different teams and organizations.
It's tempting to look for one official CICD pattern
that applies in every scenario,
but it's just a path that leads to frustration
because it doesn't exist.